Using the value in your home to pay for care

Using a home reversion plan to pay for your care
Using an equity release scheme to fund your care
Deferred payment agreements for people who own their own home and are moving into a care home
Downsizing your home to fund your long-term care
Using a lifetime mortgage to pay for your long-term care

Home
Family & care
Long-term care
Using a home reversion plan to pay for your care
If you’re over 65, own your home and need to fund your long-term care, you might be considering a home reversion plan. Here’s how they work and some pros and cons to consider.

What’s in this guide
What is a home reversion plan? 
How do home reversion plans work? 
Key safeguards 
What are the pros and cons of home reversion plans? 
Home reversion plans versus other ways of funding care 
Next steps – get independent advice 
More information 
What is a home reversion plan?
It’s a type of equity-release scheme that lets you use some of the money that’s tied up in your home.

You might use this to pay for your long-term care, but only if you’re looking to stay in your home.

With a home reversion scheme, you sell all or part of your property at less than its market value in return for a tax-free lump sum, a regular income, or both – but you stay on in your home as a tenant, paying no rent.

Home reversion plans are one of the two main types of equity release. The other is a lifetime mortgage.

Find out more in our guide Using a lifetime mortgage to pay for your long-term care
Home reversion plans are high-risk products. They might have major implications for tax, benefits, inheritance and your long-term financial planning.

It’s important to always get independent financial advice before taking out a home reversion plan or any other kind of equity-release scheme.

This will help you find out whether it’s the best choice for your personal needs and circumstances.

Back to top 
How do home reversion plans work?
With a home reversion plan, you sell all or part of your home in return for a cash lump sum, a regular income or both.

When your home is eventually sold, the reversion company gets their share of the proceeds of the sale.

If you sold the entire property to them, they’ll get all the proceeds.

If you sold part of your home, say a half, the reversion company gets that share of the proceeds, leaving the rest to go towards your inheritance.

How much will you get?
You’ll usually only get between 20% and 60% of the market value of your home or the part of the property you sold them, depending on your age and state of health.

This is because the reversion company is taking a risk on house prices and in not knowing when it will get its money back, as they cannot sell the property until you die or move into care.

In the meantime, you get the right to carry on living in the home, paying no rent.

The older you are when you start a home reversion scheme, the higher the percentage you’ll get of your home’s market value.

For this reason, they are normally best suited to those aged over 70.

You could still be liable for other costs such as ground rent (or chief rent) no matter what proportion of your home has been sold.

This is an annual sum payable on some freehold properties.

Lump sum, income or both?
A lump sum gives you the freedom to manage your money, but if you live to a very old age you might have little of it left for your later years.
With the income option, there’s the peace of mind of knowing you’ll receive regular payments for the rest of your life, but if you die soon after taking up the plan and have only taken a few payments, you will have lost a large sum from your inheritance for very little in return (although some plans do protect against this).
Many people find that a mixture of both offers the security and flexibility they need.
Back to top 
Key safeguards
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the UK’s financial services regulator, regulates home reversion plans.

This means that firms advising on or selling these products have to meet certain standards and provide clear complaints and compensation procedures.

Back to top 
What are the pros and cons of home reversion plans?
Pros
You’ll receive money to pay for your care and living costs.

You get to stay in your own home for the rest of your life, or until you have to move permanently into care.

You won’t have to go through the process of moving home.

The equity released on your main property is tax free.

Equity-release schemes can help to reduce your Inheritance Tax liability.

You can sell only part of your property, leaving the rest towards your inheritance.

If you’re self-funding, your care you might be able to use the capital raised to purchase an immediate needs annuity to deliver a regular income to pay for care. Find out more in our guide Immediate needs annuity.

Cons
It might affect your entitlement to benefits, or support from your local authority, as any money you raise through equity release is likely to affect the assessment of your income and capital.

The inheritance you pass on to your beneficiaries will be substantially reduced and won’t include your home itself.

You’ll receive considerably less than the full market value for your property.

You’re no longer the sole owner of your home.

If you end a plan early, you would need to buy back the share you sold at full market value which could be a lot more than you sold it for.

A home reversion scheme could also be poor value if you die shortly after taking it out, though some schemes give families a rebate should you die within the first few years.

They can be inflexible if your circumstances change – not all equity-release schemes are portable from one home to another and you’ll usually need the provider’s permission for someone else, such as a relative, carer or new partner, to move in.

You might need to pay arrangement, valuation and legal fees.

You’ll be required to have buildings insurance.

Lenders will expect you to keep your home in good condition, so you will need to set aside some money for repairs and maintenance.

You will still be responsible for paying your utility bills and Council Tax, so you’ll need to make sure you can afford these.
Back to top 
Home reversion plans versus other ways of funding care
So how do home reversion plans compare with other ways of funding your long-term care, such as downsizing, insurance policies and investment products?

Typically, home reversion schemes don’t offer the best value for money, particularly as you never receive the full market value for your property.

For this reason, equity-release schemes tend to be regarded as a last resort for homeowners.

Talk to family members before making any decision. It might be that they can help you or come up with alternatives.

Consider what grants or subsidised loans might be available if you’re raising capital to improve or modify your home.

Downsizing is a more cost-effective option that can free up the money you need and allow you to maintain your financial independence and perhaps allow you to live in a property more suited to your needs.

But it can be both time-consuming and stressful to downsize, and you’ll have to move from your current home.

Find out more in our guide Downsizing your home to fund your long-term care
Back to top 
Next steps – get independent advice
If you do decide to go ahead with a home reversion plan, it’s essential to speak to an independent financial adviser.

See our guide Get financial advice on how to fund your long-term care
It’s best to choose an adviser with the specialist CF8 qualification on advising on the funding of long-term care.

Back to top 
More information
Find out more about home reversion plans on the Which? websiteOpens in a new window
Contact Step Change a charity that can provide free advice on money matters and equity release
Back to top 
Was this information useful?
Share this article

Email
Facebook
Twitter

More options
Long-term care
Using the value in your home to pay for care

Using a home reversion plan to pay for your care
Using an equity release scheme to fund your care
Deferred payment agreements for people who own their own home and are moving into a care home
Downsizing your home to fund your long-term care
Using a lifetime mortgage to pay for your long-term care
