Back to top 
What are the pros and cons of home reversion plans?
Pros
You’ll receive money to pay for your care and living costs.

You get to stay in your own home for the rest of your life, or until you have to move permanently into care.

You won’t have to go through the process of moving home.

The equity released on your main property is tax free.

Equity-release schemes can help to reduce your Inheritance Tax liability.

You can sell only part of your property, leaving the rest towards your inheritance.

If you’re self-funding, your care you might be able to use the capital raised to purchase an immediate needs annuity to deliver a regular income to pay for care. Find out more in our guide Immediate needs annuity.

Cons
It might affect your entitlement to benefits, or support from your local authority, as any money you raise through equity release is likely to affect the assessment of your income and capital.

The inheritance you pass on to your beneficiaries will be substantially reduced and won’t include your home itself.

You’ll receive considerably less than the full market value for your property.

You’re no longer the sole owner of your home.

If you end a plan early, you would need to buy back the share you sold at full market value which could be a lot more than you sold it for.

A home reversion scheme could also be poor value if you die shortly after taking it out, though some schemes give families a rebate should you die within the first few years.

They can be inflexible if your circumstances change – not all equity-release schemes are portable from one home to another and you’ll usually need the provider’s permission for someone else, such as a relative, carer or new partner, to move in.

You might need to pay arrangement, valuation and legal fees.

You’ll be required to have buildings insurance.

Lenders will expect you to keep your home in good condition, so you will need to set aside some money for repairs and maintenance.

You will still be responsible for paying your utility bills and Council Tax, so you’ll need to make sure you can afford these.
Back to top 
Home reversion plans versus other ways of funding care
So how do home reversion plans compare with other ways of funding your long-term care, such as downsizing, insurance policies and investment products?

Typically, home reversion schemes don’t offer the best value for money, particularly as you never receive the full market value for your property.

For this reason, equity-release schemes tend to be regarded as a last resort for homeowners.

Talk to family members before making any decision. It might be that they can help you or come up with alternatives.

Consider what grants or subsidised loans might be available if you’re raising capital to improve or modify your home.

Downsizing is a more cost-effective option that can free up the money you need and allow you to maintain your financial independence and perhaps allow you to live in a property more suited to your needs.

But it can be both time-consuming and stressful to downsize, and you’ll have to move from your current home.

Find out more in our guide Downsizing your home to fund your long-term care
Back to top 
Next steps – get independent advice
If you do decide to go ahead with a home reversion plan, it’s essential to speak to an independent financial adviser.

See our guide Get financial advice on how to fund your long-term care
It’s best to choose an adviser with the specialist CF8 qualification on advising on the funding of long-term care.

Back to top 
More information
Find out more about home reversion plans on the Which? websiteOpens in a new window
Contact Step Change a charity that can provide free advice on money matters and equity release
Back to top 
Was this information useful?
Share this article

Email
Facebook
Twitter

More options
Long-term care
Using the value in your home to pay for care

Using a home reversion plan to pay for your care
Using an equity release scheme to fund your care
Deferred payment agreements for people who own their own home and are moving into a care home
Downsizing your home to fund your long-term care
Using a lifetime mortgage to pay for your long-term care
