Home
Family & care
Long-term care
Using a home reversion plan to pay for your care
If you’re over 65, own your home and need to fund your long-term care, you might be considering a home reversion plan. Here’s how they work and some pros and cons to consider.

What’s in this guide
What is a home reversion plan? 
How do home reversion plans work? 
Key safeguards 
What are the pros and cons of home reversion plans? 
Home reversion plans versus other ways of funding care 
Next steps – get independent advice 
More information 
What is a home reversion plan?
It’s a type of equity-release scheme that lets you use some of the money that’s tied up in your home.

You might use this to pay for your long-term care, but only if you’re looking to stay in your home.

With a home reversion scheme, you sell all or part of your property at less than its market value in return for a tax-free lump sum, a regular income, or both – but you stay on in your home as a tenant, paying no rent.

Home reversion plans are one of the two main types of equity release. The other is a lifetime mortgage.

Find out more in our guide Using a lifetime mortgage to pay for your long-term care
Home reversion plans are high-risk products. They might have major implications for tax, benefits, inheritance and your long-term financial planning.

It’s important to always get independent financial advice before taking out a home reversion plan or any other kind of equity-release scheme.

This will help you find out whether it’s the best choice for your personal needs and circumstances.

Back to top 
How do home reversion plans work?
With a home reversion plan, you sell all or part of your home in return for a cash lump sum, a regular income or both.

When your home is eventually sold, the reversion company gets their share of the proceeds of the sale.

If you sold the entire property to them, they’ll get all the proceeds.

If you sold part of your home, say a half, the reversion company gets that share of the proceeds, leaving the rest to go towards your inheritance.

How much will you get?
You’ll usually only get between 20% and 60% of the market value of your home or the part of the property you sold them, depending on your age and state of health.

This is because the reversion company is taking a risk on house prices and in not knowing when it will get its money back, as they cannot sell the property until you die or move into care.

In the meantime, you get the right to carry on living in the home, paying no rent.

The older you are when you start a home reversion scheme, the higher the percentage you’ll get of your home’s market value.

For this reason, they are normally best suited to those aged over 70.

You could still be liable for other costs such as ground rent (or chief rent) no matter what proportion of your home has been sold.

This is an annual sum payable on some freehold properties.

Lump sum, income or both?
A lump sum gives you the freedom to manage your money, but if you live to a very old age you might have little of it left for your later years.
With the income option, there’s the peace of mind of knowing you’ll receive regular payments for the rest of your life, but if you die soon after taking up the plan and have only taken a few payments, you will have lost a large sum from your inheritance for very little in return (although some plans do protect against this).
Many people find that a mixture of both offers the security and flexibility they need.
Back to top 
Key safeguards
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the UK’s financial services regulator, regulates home reversion plans.

This means that firms advising on or selling these products have to meet certain standards and provide clear complaints and compensation procedures.

