If you want help with your immediate needs and help to see if you may be able to get your money back, call our financial crimes and scams unit on 0800 015 4402

In the first 30 days after purchase, you have the right to reject the goods. This means you can return an item that doesn’t meet the three criteria for a full refund.

This right doesn’t cover digital downloads, but you can ask for them to be repaired or replaced. If unsuccessful, you have the right to get a price reduction.

Back to top 
Your consumer rights after 30 days of buying
After 30 days, you’re not legally entitled to a full refund. But you can ask the retailer to replace or repair the good that don’t meet the three criteria.

For digital downloads, where a repair of the original download isn’t possible, you should be given the chance to download it again.

Back to top 
Your consumer rights within six months
If a product develops a fault within the first six months after purchase, it’s assumed it has been there since the time of purchase. This means it’s up to the retailer to prove it wasn’t there when you bought it.

If a repair or replacement has failed, you have the right to reject the goods for a full refund or price reduction.

Back to top 
Your consumer rights after six months
If a fault develops after six months, it’s up to you to prove it was faulty at the time of purchase or delivery.

Find out more about your rights under the Consumer Rights ActOpens in a new window at Which?
Back to top 
Consumer Contracts Regulations
If you buy something without seeing it in person first – for example, if you buy something online – you’re covered under the Consumer Contracts Regulations, as well as the Consumer Rights Act.

Back to top 
Your consumer rights within the first 14 days of buying online
You have the right to cancel your purchase for a full refund from when you place an order until 14 days after it was delivered.

Find out more about Consumer Contracts RegulationOpens in a new window at Which?
Back to top 
Delivery rights
Delivery of purchases is covered under the Consumer Rights Act. This means the retailer is liable for getting the product safely to you, not the courier they employ.

Default delivery
The retailer must deliver what you’ve ordered within 30 days, unless another timeframe was agreed with them.

