
Late delivery
If you’ve agreed a delivery by a certain date (for example, getting presents delivered in time for Christmas), and the retailer fails to meet this, you have the right to cancel for a full refund.

Returns
When you return items because they don’t meet the three criteria of the Consumer Rights Act, the retailer must refund standard delivery costs. If you pay for extras on the return – for example, next day delivery – you’ll have to cover the extra cost.

Find out more about your delivery rightsOpens in a new window at Which?
Back to top 
Rights with second-hand purchases
Your rights when buying second-hand goods depend on who you bought the item from.

If you bought from a retailer or trader, not a private individual, you’re covered under Consumer Contracts Regulations and the Consumer Rights Act. This means you have the standard right to cancel or to reject under the three criteria.

Buying from a private seller makes things slightly more complicated. As long as the product has been accurately described, you are not entitled to a refund, repair or replacement.

Find out more about your rights when buying second-handOpens in a new window at Which?
Back to top 
Digital content rights
Digital content purchases, such as software or music downloads, come under the Consumer Rights Act. This means they must meet the three criteria. If they don’t, you’re entitled to a refund, repair or replacement.

The retailer might also owe you compensation if the digital product you bought also damaged any device it was used on or other digital content – assuming you used all reasonable care and attention.

Find out more about your consumer rights on digital contentOpens in a new window at Which? 
Back to top 
Rights with perishable goods
Perishable goods are a complicated case as they might not make it to the 14 days-after-purchase limit under the Consumer Contacts Regulations, let alone the 30-day limit of the Consumer Rights Act.

Under these circumstances, the period will be determined by how long it’s reasonable to have expected the goods to last. For example, on food items you would reasonably expect the item to last until its use-by date.

Back to top 
Rights on services
From a haircut and dry cleaning to building work and accounting, a wide range of services are covered under the Consumer Rights Act. But there are slightly different criteria:

Service must be carried out with care and skill
All information, written or spoken, is binding when the consumer relies on it
If a price isn’t agreed beforehand, the service must be provided at a reasonable cost
Unless the timescale is agreed beforehand, the service must be carried out in a reasonable time.
If the service fails to meet these standards, the service provider should either redo certain elements of the service, or perform the whole service again at no extra cost. If this is impossible, you’re entitled to a price reduction.

Find out more about your consumer rights for servicesOpens in a new window at Which? 
Back to top 
Used cars
Second-hand cars are consistently the most complained about product when it comes to consumer rights.

Traders and private sellers
If you bought from a trader, you’re covered under the Consumer Rights Act and the standard timeframes.

If buying from a private seller, you have fewer rights. This means that as long as the car was accurately described, you won’t be able to claim a refund.

Find out more about your rights when buying a second-hand carOpens in a new window at Which?
Car brokers
Using a car broker is becoming an increasingly popular way to buy a car. You give the specifications of the car you want to a car broker, who will then deal with all the traders and dealerships to find you the best deal.

Under these conditions, and provided you meet the requirements set out, you might be covered under the distance seller element of the Consumer Contracts Regulations.

Back to top 
Section 75
Along with your rights under the Consumer Rights Act and Consumer Contracts Regulations, buying with your credit card can offer added protection for purchases between £100 and £30,000 under the Consumer Credit Act.

Transactions of any value on debit cards or pre-paid might be covered under a voluntary scheme called chargeback.

Find out more in our guide How chargeback and section 75 protection work for your credit and debit card
Back to top 
Was this information useful?
Share this article

Email
Facebook
Twitter

More options
Consumer rights
Consumer rights

Consumer rights – what you need to know
Letter templates
Consumer rights

Consumer rights – what you need to know
